specs/3-agent-architecture-migration/alex-future-implementation.md, before:

# Alex - Video Producer Agent Implementation Requirements

**Implementation Status:** DEFERRED FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
**Priority:** Phase 2 (After Maya/David Migration Completion)
**Estimated Timeline:** 2-3 weeks after handoff infrastructure is stable

## Overview

Alex is the Video Producer Agent responsible for transforming creative briefs and assets from David into professional commercial videos. This agent will be the final step in the 3-agent pipeline, delivering the completed video product to users.

## Core Responsibilities

### 1. Handoff Reception and Processing
- **Receive David's creative handoff data** containing:
  - Creative brief and messaging strategy
  - Generated visual assets (product shots, lifestyle images, backgrounds)
  - Scene composition plans and storyboards
  - Style guide and brand guidelines
  - Production requirements and specifications

### 2. Production Planning
- **Analyze creative requirements** from David's handoff
- **Generate video production plan** including:
  - Scene sequencing and timing
  - Asset integration strategy
  - Video generation parameters
  - Quality assurance checkpoints
- **Create production timeline** with estimated completion times
- **Validate production feasibility** within budget constraints

### 3. Video Generation
- **Integrate with Vertex AI Veo API** for video synthesis
- **Process scene assets** and apply them according to production plan
- **Generate video segments** with proper timing and transitions
- **Apply visual effects** and style consistency
- **Synchronize audio elements** if included in creative brief
- **Monitor generation progress** and provide real-time updates

### 4. Quality Assurance and Optimization
- **Validate generated video** against production plan
- **Apply post-processing optimizations**:
  - Color correction and consistency
  - Audio level balancing
  - Compression optimization
  - Format compliance
- **Generate multiple delivery formats** as required
- **Create video thumbnails** and preview assets

### 5. Delivery and Approval
- **Present final video** for user review
- **Provide delivery options** (download, streaming, sharing)
- **Generate video metadata** and documentation
- **Handle revision requests** if needed
- **Archive production assets** for future reference

## Technical Architecture

### 1. Agent Core (`lib/agents/video-producer/`)

#### Core Logic
- `VideoProductionEngine`: Main orchestration of video production workflow
- `SceneSequencer`: Handles scene timing and sequencing logic
- `AssetIntegrator`: Manages visual asset integration into video
- `VideoOptimizer`: Post-processing and optimization pipeline
- `QualityValidator`: Validates output against requirements

#### Tools
- `VeoAPIClient`: Vertex AI Veo API integration
- `VideoProcessor`: Video manipulation and effects
- `AudioSyncer`: Audio integration and synchronization
- `FormatConverter`: Multi-format output generation
- `ThumbnailGenerator`: Preview asset creation

#### Types
- `VideoProductionJob`: Complete production job definition
- `DavidToAlexHandoffData`: Structured handoff data from David
- `VideoProductionPlan`: Production planning and requirements
- `ProductionProgress`: Real-time progress tracking
- `VideoDeliverable`: Final output specifications

### 2. State Management (`lib/stores/video-producer-store.ts`)

#### State Structure
```typescript
interface VideoProducerState {
  // Agent status
  isActive: boolean;
  currentMode: 'planning' | 'production' | 'review' | 'idle';

  // Handoff processing
  handoffData: DavidToAlexHandoffData | null;
  handoffValidation: ValidationResult;

  // Production workflow
  productionPlan: VideoProductionPlan | null;
  currentJob: VideoProductionJob | null;
  progress: ProductionProgress | null;

  // Output management
  generatedVideo: VideoDeliverable | null;
  deliveryOptions: DeliveryOption[];

  // UI state
  expandedSections: ProductionSections;
  previewMode: 'timeline' | 'preview' | 'settings';
}
```

#### Key Actions
- Handoff data processing and validation
- Production plan generation and approval
- Video generation orchestration
- Progress monitoring and updates
- Quality assurance workflow
- Delivery and export management

### 3. API Endpoints (`app/api/agents/video-producer/`)

#### Main Routes
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/handoff` - Receive David's handoff
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/planning` - Generate production plan
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/production` - Start video generation
- `GET /api/agents/video-producer/progress` - Monitor generation progress
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/optimization` - Apply post-processing
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/delivery` - Finalize and deliver

#### Specialized Endpoints
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/preview` - Generate preview/thumbnail
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/validate` - Quality validation
- `GET /api/agents/video-producer/formats` - Available delivery formats
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/export` - Export in specific format

### 4. UI Components (`components/video-producer/`)

#### Primary Components
- `VideoProducerCard`: Main agent interface
- `HandoffReceptionCard`: Receive and validate David's handoff
- `ProductionPlanningCard`: Interactive production planning
- `VideoGenerationCard`: Generation progress and controls
- `QualityReviewCard`: Quality assurance and approval
- `DeliveryOptionsCard`: Export and delivery management

#### Supporting Components
- `ProductionTimeline`: Visual timeline of production steps
- `AssetPreview`: Preview integrated assets
- `ProgressIndicator`: Real-time generation progress
- `VideoPlayer`: Preview generated video
- `ExportSettings`: Delivery format configuration

## Integration Requirements

### 1. Handoff Data Processing
- **Firestore integration** for handoff data persistence
- **Data validation** against DavidToAlexHandoffData schema
- **Asset URL verification** and accessibility checks
- **Handoff completeness validation** before proceeding

### 2. Vertex AI Veo API Integration
- **Authentication** using Google Cloud service account
- **Request formatting** for Veo video generation API
- **Progress polling** for long-running video generation jobs
- **Error handling** and retry logic for API failures
- **Cost tracking** integration for budget monitoring

### 3. File Storage and Management
- **Generated video storage** in Google Cloud Storage
- **Asset caching** for production efficiency
- **Thumbnail generation** and storage
- **Cleanup policies** for temporary files
- **Version control** for iterative generations

### 4. Quality Assurance Pipeline
- **Automated validation** against production requirements
- **Format compliance** checking
- **Audio/video synchronization** validation
- **File integrity** verification
- **Performance optimization** analysis

## Demo Mode Implementation

### Mock Data Strategy
- **Realistic handoff data** from David with sample assets
- **Simulated video generation** with progress updates
- **Pre-recorded sample videos** for different product categories
- **Interactive production planning** with immediate feedback
- **Realistic timing** for generation simulation (30-60 seconds)

### Demo Workflow
1. **Instant handoff reception** from David with rich sample data
2. **Interactive production planning** with real-time plan generation
3. **Simulated video generation** with realistic progress updates
4. **Sample video delivery** matching the production plan
5. **Full export options** with simulated file generation

## Performance and Cost Targets

### Performance Requirements
- **Handoff processing**: < 5 seconds
- **Production planning**: < 10 seconds
- **Video generation**: 5-8 minutes (Veo API constraint)
- **Post-processing**: < 30 seconds
- **Total workflow**: < 10 minutes

### Cost Management
- **Target cost per video**: $1.50-$2.00
- **Budget monitoring**: Real-time cost tracking
- **Generation limits**: Based on remaining budget
- **Cost prediction**: Estimate costs before generation
- **Budget alerts**: Warnings at 75% and 90% usage

## Testing Strategy

### Unit Testing
- Handoff data validation logic
- Production plan generation algorithms
- Video processing utilities
- Cost calculation functions
- Quality validation rules

### Integration Testing
- End-to-end David → Alex handoff flow
- Veo API integration and error handling
- File storage and retrieval operations
- Progress tracking accuracy
- Multi-format export functionality

### User Experience Testing
- Production planning workflow usability
- Progress indication clarity
- Video preview and approval process
- Export options accessibility
- Error message comprehension

## Implementation Phases

### Phase 1: Core Infrastructure (Week 1)
- [ ] Complete handoff data processing
- [ ] Implement production planning logic
- [ ] Set up Veo API integration
- [ ] Create basic UI components
- [ ] Add demo mode functionality

### Phase 2: Video Generation (Week 2)
- [ ] Implement video generation pipeline
- [ ] Add progress monitoring system
- [ ] Create quality validation workflow
- [ ] Implement post-processing features
- [ ] Add error handling and recovery

### Phase 3: Polish and Optimization (Week 3)
- [ ] Optimize generation performance
- [ ] Enhance user experience
- [ ] Add advanced export options
- [ ] Implement comprehensive testing
- [ ] Deploy and monitor system

## Dependencies and Prerequisites

### Technical Dependencies
- ✅ Maya/David migration completed and stable
- ✅ Handoff data storage infrastructure operational
- ✅ Vertex AI Veo API access configured
- ✅ Google Cloud Storage bucket set up
- ✅ Cost tracking system integrated

### Development Dependencies
- ✅ TypeScript interfaces for all handoff data
- ✅ Firestore schema for Alex data persistence
- ✅ Authentication flow for Google Cloud APIs
- ✅ File upload/download utilities
- ✅ Error boundary components for video processing

### Testing Dependencies
- Sample handoff data from David agent
- Veo API test account with sufficient quota
- Test video assets for validation
- Performance monitoring tools
- Cost tracking validation system

## Success Criteria

### Functional Requirements
- ✅ Successfully receive and process David's handoff data
- ✅ Generate realistic production plans from creative briefs
- ✅ Create commercial videos using Veo API
- ✅ Deliver videos in multiple formats
- ✅ Maintain cost targets under $2.00 per video

### Quality Requirements
- ✅ Video generation success rate > 90%
- ✅ Production workflow completion < 10 minutes
- ✅ User satisfaction with final video quality
- ✅ Zero data loss during handoff processing
- ✅ Reliable error handling and recovery

### Performance Requirements
- ✅ Real-time progress updates during generation
- ✅ Responsive UI during long-running operations
- ✅ Efficient asset management and caching
- ✅ Accurate cost prediction and tracking
- ✅ Fast preview and export generation

## Risk Mitigation

### Technical Risks
- **Veo API limitations**: Implement fallback strategies and quality adjustment
- **Generation failures**: Comprehensive retry logic with exponential backoff
- **Asset compatibility**: Validation and format conversion pipeline
- **Performance bottlenecks**: Async processing and progress streaming
- **Storage limits**: Automated cleanup and archiving policies

### Business Risks
- **Cost overruns**: Strict budget monitoring and generation limits
- **Quality concerns**: Multi-level quality validation and approval workflow
- **User adoption**: Intuitive UI and comprehensive demo mode
- **Scalability issues**: Efficient resource management and queuing
- **Reliability concerns**: Comprehensive error handling and monitoring

## Future Enhancements

### Advanced Features (Post-Implementation)
- **Multi-language video generation** using voiceover integration
- **Interactive video editing** with user-directed changes
- **Batch video generation** for product catalogs
- **Custom branding templates** for consistent visual identity
- **Analytics and performance tracking** for video effectiveness

### Integration Opportunities
- **Social media optimization** for platform-specific formats
- **A/B testing framework** for video variations
- **Content management integration** for enterprise workflows
- **API access** for third-party integrations
- **White-label customization** for agency partnerships

---

**Implementation Priority:** Phase 2 Development
**Dependency:** Completion of Maya/David migration
**Timeline:** 2-3 weeks after handoff infrastructure is stable
**Budget Allocation:** $50-75 for development and testing

Commit message:

finished zara persona & video producer UI

specs/3-agent-architecture-migration/alex-future-implementation.md, after:

# Zara - Video Producer Agent Implementation Requirements

**Implementation Status:** DEFERRED FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
**Priority:** Phase 2 (After Maya/David Migration Completion)
**Estimated Timeline:** 2-3 weeks after handoff infrastructure is stable

## Overview

Zara is the Video Producer Agent responsible for transforming creative briefs and assets from David into professional commercial videos. This agent will be the final step in the 3-agent pipeline, delivering the completed video product to users.

## Core Responsibilities

### 1. Handoff Reception and Processing
- **Receive David's creative handoff data** containing:
  - Creative brief and messaging strategy
  - Generated visual assets (product shots, lifestyle images, backgrounds)
  - Scene composition plans and storyboards
  - Style guide and brand guidelines
  - Production requirements and specifications

### 2. Production Planning
- **Analyze creative requirements** from David's handoff
- **Generate video production plan** including:
  - Scene sequencing and timing
  - Asset integration strategy
  - Video generation parameters
  - Quality assurance checkpoints
- **Create production timeline** with estimated completion times
- **Validate production feasibility** within budget constraints

### 3. Video Generation
- **Integrate with Vertex AI Veo API** for video synthesis
- **Process scene assets** and apply them according to production plan
- **Generate video segments** with proper timing and transitions
- **Apply visual effects** and style consistency
- **Synchronize audio elements** if included in creative brief
- **Monitor generation progress** and provide real-time updates

### 4. Quality Assurance and Optimization
- **Validate generated video** against production plan
- **Apply post-processing optimizations**:
  - Color correction and consistency
  - Audio level balancing
  - Compression optimization
  - Format compliance
- **Generate multiple delivery formats** as required
- **Create video thumbnails** and preview assets

### 5. Delivery and Approval
- **Present final video** for user review
- **Provide delivery options** (download, streaming, sharing)
- **Generate video metadata** and documentation
- **Handle revision requests** if needed
- **Archive production assets** for future reference

## Technical Architecture

### 1. Agent Core (`lib/agents/video-producer/`)

#### Core Logic
- `VideoProductionEngine`: Main orchestration of video production workflow
- `SceneSequencer`: Handles scene timing and sequencing logic
- `AssetIntegrator`: Manages visual asset integration into video
- `VideoOptimizer`: Post-processing and optimization pipeline
- `QualityValidator`: Validates output against requirements

#### Tools
- `VeoAPIClient`: Vertex AI Veo API integration
- `VideoProcessor`: Video manipulation and effects
- `AudioSyncer`: Audio integration and synchronization
- `FormatConverter`: Multi-format output generation
- `ThumbnailGenerator`: Preview asset creation

#### Types
- `VideoProductionJob`: Complete production job definition
- `DavidToZaraHandoffData`: Structured handoff data from David
- `VideoProductionPlan`: Production planning and requirements
- `ProductionProgress`: Real-time progress tracking
- `VideoDeliverable`: Final output specifications

### 2. State Management (`lib/stores/video-producer-store.ts`)

#### State Structure
```typescript
interface VideoProducerState {
  // Agent status
  isActive: boolean;
  currentMode: 'planning' | 'production' | 'review' | 'idle';

  // Handoff processing
  handoffData: DavidToZaraHandoffData | null;
  handoffValidation: ValidationResult;

  // Production workflow
  productionPlan: VideoProductionPlan | null;
  currentJob: VideoProductionJob | null;
  progress: ProductionProgress | null;

  // Output management
  generatedVideo: VideoDeliverable | null;
  deliveryOptions: DeliveryOption[];

  // UI state
  expandedSections: ProductionSections;
  previewMode: 'timeline' | 'preview' | 'settings';
}
```

#### Key Actions
- Handoff data processing and validation
- Production plan generation and approval
- Video generation orchestration
- Progress monitoring and updates
- Quality assurance workflow
- Delivery and export management

### 3. API Endpoints (`app/api/agents/video-producer/`)

#### Main Routes
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/handoff` - Receive David's handoff
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/planning` - Generate production plan
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/production` - Start video generation
- `GET /api/agents/video-producer/progress` - Monitor generation progress
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/optimization` - Apply post-processing
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/delivery` - Finalize and deliver

#### Specialized Endpoints
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/preview` - Generate preview/thumbnail
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/validate` - Quality validation
- `GET /api/agents/video-producer/formats` - Available delivery formats
- `POST /api/agents/video-producer/export` - Export in specific format

### 4. UI Components (`components/video-producer/`)

#### Primary Components
- `VideoProducerCard`: Main agent interface
- `HandoffReceptionCard`: Receive and validate David's handoff
- `ProductionPlanningCard`: Interactive production planning
- `VideoGenerationCard`: Generation progress and controls
- `QualityReviewCard`: Quality assurance and approval
- `DeliveryOptionsCard`: Export and delivery management

#### Supporting Components
- `ProductionTimeline`: Visual timeline of production steps
- `AssetPreview`: Preview integrated assets
- `ProgressIndicator`: Real-time generation progress
- `VideoPlayer`: Preview generated video
- `ExportSettings`: Delivery format configuration

## Integration Requirements

### 1. Handoff Data Processing
- **Firestore integration** for handoff data persistence
- **Data validation** against DavidToZaraHandoffData schema
- **Asset URL verification** and accessibility checks
- **Handoff completeness validation** before proceeding

### 2. Vertex AI Veo API Integration
- **Authentication** using Google Cloud service account
- **Request formatting** for Veo video generation API
- **Progress polling** for long-running video generation jobs
- **Error handling** and retry logic for API failures
- **Cost tracking** integration for budget monitoring

### 3. File Storage and Management
- **Generated video storage** in Google Cloud Storage
- **Asset caching** for production efficiency
- **Thumbnail generation** and storage
- **Cleanup policies** for temporary files
- **Version control** for iterative generations

### 4. Quality Assurance Pipeline
- **Automated validation** against production requirements
- **Format compliance** checking
- **Audio/video synchronization** validation
- **File integrity** verification
- **Performance optimization** analysis

## Demo Mode Implementation

### Mock Data Strategy
- **Realistic handoff data** from David with sample assets
- **Simulated video generation** with progress updates
- **Pre-recorded sample videos** for different product categories
- **Interactive production planning** with immediate feedback
- **Realistic timing** for generation simulation (30-60 seconds)

### Demo Workflow
1. **Instant handoff reception** from David with rich sample data
2. **Interactive production planning** with real-time plan generation
3. **Simulated video generation** with realistic progress updates
4. **Sample video delivery** matching the production plan
5. **Full export options** with simulated file generation

## Performance and Cost Targets

### Performance Requirements
- **Handoff processing**: < 5 seconds
- **Production planning**: < 10 seconds
- **Video generation**: 5-8 minutes (Veo API constraint)
- **Post-processing**: < 30 seconds
- **Total workflow**: < 10 minutes

### Cost Management
- **Target cost per video**: $1.50-$2.00
- **Budget monitoring**: Real-time cost tracking
- **Generation limits**: Based on remaining budget
- **Cost prediction**: Estimate costs before generation
- **Budget alerts**: Warnings at 75% and 90% usage

## Testing Strategy

### Unit Testing
- Handoff data validation logic
- Production plan generation algorithms
- Video processing utilities
- Cost calculation functions
- Quality validation rules

### Integration Testing
- End-to-end David → Zara handoff flow
- Veo API integration and error handling
- File storage and retrieval operations
- Progress tracking accuracy
- Multi-format export functionality

### User Experience Testing
- Production planning workflow usability
- Progress indication clarity
- Video preview and approval process
- Export options accessibility
- Error message comprehension

## Implementation Phases

### Phase 1: Core Infrastructure (Week 1)
- [ ] Complete handoff data processing
- [ ] Implement production planning logic
- [ ] Set up Veo API integration
- [ ] Create basic UI components
- [ ] Add demo mode functionality

### Phase 2: Video Generation (Week 2)
- [ ] Implement video generation pipeline
- [ ] Add progress monitoring system
- [ ] Create quality validation workflow
- [ ] Implement post-processing features
- [ ] Add error handling and recovery

### Phase 3: Polish and Optimization (Week 3)
- [ ] Optimize generation performance
- [ ] Enhance user experience
- [ ] Add advanced export options
- [ ] Implement comprehensive testing
- [ ] Deploy and monitor system

## Dependencies and Prerequisites

### Technical Dependencies
- ✅ Maya/David migration completed and stable
- ✅ Handoff data storage infrastructure operational
- ✅ Vertex AI Veo API access configured
- ✅ Google Cloud Storage bucket set up
- ✅ Cost tracking system integrated

### Development Dependencies
- ✅ TypeScript interfaces for all handoff data
- ✅ Firestore schema for Zara data persistence
- ✅ Authentication flow for Google Cloud APIs
- ✅ File upload/download utilities
- ✅ Error boundary components for video processing

### Testing Dependencies
- Sample handoff data from David agent
- Veo API test account with sufficient quota
- Test video assets for validation
- Performance monitoring tools
- Cost tracking validation system

## Success Criteria

### Functional Requirements
- ✅ Successfully receive and process David's handoff data
- ✅ Generate realistic production plans from creative briefs
- ✅ Create commercial videos using Veo API
- ✅ Deliver videos in multiple formats
- ✅ Maintain cost targets under $2.00 per video

### Quality Requirements
- ✅ Video generation success rate > 90%
- ✅ Production workflow completion < 10 minutes
- ✅ User satisfaction with final video quality
- ✅ Zero data loss during handoff processing
- ✅ Reliable error handling and recovery

### Performance Requirements
- ✅ Real-time progress updates during generation
- ✅ Responsive UI during long-running operations
- ✅ Efficient asset management and caching
- ✅ Accurate cost prediction and tracking
- ✅ Fast preview and export generation

## Risk Mitigation

### Technical Risks
- **Veo API limitations**: Implement fallback strategies and quality adjustment
- **Generation failures**: Comprehensive retry logic with exponential backoff
- **Asset compatibility**: Validation and format conversion pipeline
- **Performance bottlenecks**: Async processing and progress streaming
- **Storage limits**: Automated cleanup and archiving policies

### Business Risks
- **Cost overruns**: Strict budget monitoring and generation limits
- **Quality concerns**: Multi-level quality validation and approval workflow
- **User adoption**: Intuitive UI and comprehensive demo mode
- **Scalability issues**: Efficient resource management and queuing
- **Reliability concerns**: Comprehensive error handling and monitoring

## Future Enhancements

### Advanced Features (Post-Implementation)
- **Multi-language video generation** using voiceover integration
- **Interactive video editing** with user-directed changes
- **Batch video generation** for product catalogs
- **Custom branding templates** for consistent visual identity
- **Analytics and performance tracking** for video effectiveness

### Integration Opportunities
- **Social media optimization** for platform-specific formats
- **A/B testing framework** for video variations
- **Content management integration** for enterprise workflows
- **API access** for third-party integrations
- **White-label customization** for agency partnerships

---

**Implementation Priority:** Phase 2 Development
**Dependency:** Completion of Maya/David migration
**Timeline:** 2-3 weeks after handoff infrastructure is stable
**Budget Allocation:** $50-75 for development and testing
